Chapter 1 : The MU puzzle
Forma systems - they can have things that are true but unprovable. 
Machines do the routine tasks without questioning it or getting bored. 
A sign of intelligent being or system is that it can jump outside the formal system and check what tasks have been done. Canada chess computer, resigned in hopeless situations.

Chapter 2: Meaning and form in Mathematics
Can you complex structures be mapped to each other, showing resemblance? 
Iso is the way to create meaning in people’s minds. 

Chapter 3: Figure and Ground
Artists distinguish between figure and ground Figure is the focus. 
Ground is background, negative space
Contracrostipunctus - recursion of recursion.

Chapter 4: Consistency, Completeness, and Geometry 
Context of the word is equally important as the meaning of the word.
The sky is blue and 1+1 = 2, both are contextual.
Hilbert assumed set theory and number theory will complete the mathematics.
Euclid’s space have 5 postulates but the 5th one isn’t true for hyperbolic geometry or the spherical geometry. Thus context is important.

Godel says:
1. Any system as powerful as Number theory that can prove its consistency is inconsistent.
2. Any system as powerful as Number theory is necessarily incomplete.

Bertrand Russel and Northwhite wrote Principia Mathematica to remove the inconsistencies in the system i.e. self reference and recursion.
Languages are recursive too.
Little harmonic labyrinth - Bach’s work
There is no upper limit to infinity- you can create new infinity with the infinities at the bottom.


Chapter 5:  Recursive structure and processes
We see recursion everywhere. It is nesting and variations in nesting.
Languages are recursive.
Filius Bonacci aka Fibonacci (didn’t know)
Hofstadter's Law: It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law. 
It is about how we perceive things and how fast we can anticipate things to happen but it takes a lot of time in reality.
Deep blue defeated Garry Kaspaorv in 1997

Chapter 6: The location of meaning
Do symbols and texts have inherent meaning that any intelligent life can understand it?
Voynich manuscript
Meaning isn’t inherent but contextual and subjective.
Earth chauvinism - What humans on earth consider intelligent and social code should be applicable to all universe but there can be different types of intelligence.
e.g. a meteor destroying some historical artefact in a museum.

Chapter 7: The Propositional Calculus 
Rules of logic
Interesting conversation of palindrome between T and A
The Propositional Calculus gives us a set of rules for producing statements which would be true in all conceivable worlds. 

Chapter 8: Typographical Number Theory 
Any system that is strong enough to prove TNT’s consistency is at least as strong as TNT itself.
1 = 0.99999
The things that we know and are sure of such as number systems, they sometimes surprise us by throwing weird results or results that aren’t anticipated.
The mu offering : A discussion on true and false.

Chapter 9: Mumon and Gödel 
Zen and enlightenment - transcending dualism.
Strive for being without thinking.

Godel numbering.
Theorems can be represented typographically and arithmetically.
Formal systems can be expressed using numbers and thus using TNT
TNT can be shown as incomplete.

Chapter 10: Levels of Description, and Computer Systems 
Transistors make up circuit boards, CB make up CPU, and CPU aid in programming along with other peripherals.
A computer programmer is concerned with the higher level and not necessarily a transistor.

Bootstrapping- creation of higher level systems, self learning.
Epiphenomenon - consequences of a system that are not contained in a system. If we can type 200 wpm then it isn’t written or coded anywhere in the body.

Is consciousness an epiphenomenon? Can we understand the mind without going to the lower levels or is it imperative to go down the molecular level to understand the brain?
Are Computers Super-Flexible or Super-Rigid? 

Ant fugue
Individual ant might not be intelligent but ant colony as a collective is.

Chapter 11: Brains and Thoughts
Neuron gets fired or not fried. 
Symbols are group of neurons firing in a certain way.

How do neutrons firing give rise to symbols and if symbol activation can be explained without discussing lower level neurons then it means intelligence can be created on a software or outside the brain.

Chapter 12: Minds and Thoughts Can Minds Be Mapped onto Each Other? 
Maybe not otherwise there would be humans with identical thoughts. Can isomorphism exist at the neural level?
Partial isomorphism

Chapter 13: BlooP and FlooP and GlooP 
Formal system in number theory, then Godel’s method says your system is incomplete.
If your system isn’t formal then it is incomplete.

Bloop - language with bounded loops
Floop - language with free/unbounded loops

If we accept the CT-Thesis, we have to conclude that "GlooP" is a myth-there are no restrictions to remove in FlooP, no ways to increase its power by "unshackling" it, as we did BlooP.

Chapter 14: On Formally Undecidable Propositions of TNT and Related Systems' 
How can I trust that I can trust you - interesting conversation between T and A
Shows how Godel’s string is created and can be applied to euclidean and non-euclidean spaces.

Chapter 15: Jumping out of the System 

Can we really break out of ourselves? 
Can a computer program does so? A computer program follows the pattern that are coded.
Lucas says humans are intelligent compared to machines for we can understand the Godel’s process.
We cannot write a program to do "Gödelizing”.

Chapter 16: Self-Ref and Self-Rep 
Self rep - self reproducing 
Self ref - self referential

It is possible to design a strand of DNA which produces the proteins that can destroy the DNA.
Introduced typogenetics

Chapter 17: Church, Turing, Tarski, and Others 
Higher level systems are designed from much simpler systems at the lower level.
TARSKI-CHURCH-TURING THEOREM: There is no infallible method for telling true from false statements of number theory. 
Mental processes can be programmed in a Turing complete language.

Chapter 18: Artificial Intelligence: Retrospects 
Turing test
Tesler’s theorem - AI is whatever hasn’t been done yet.
Reduce the larger problems of music, arts, physics, computer programs to smaller modular problems. This is called changing the problem space.
Knowledge doesn’t come in sentences like packets or quanta, it is more abstract.

Chapter 19: Artificial Intelligence: Prospects 
Is computer generated art really an art? If computer doesn’t understand it then what is the role of the computer? Is it merely a tool?
Will AI become super intelligent?


Chapter 20: Strange Loops, Or Tangled Hierarchies 
Underneath every tangled hierarchy is an inviolate level, whether we see it or not.
Are we self programmed? Do we have access to the lowest level?

A system that can process the symbols and can think in same manner as brain isn’t stopped by Godel.
Self reference, recursion, and loops are the core in understanding AI and developing AI
Self means able to reflect on oneself. Can machines do so?

To simulate consciousness in machines, we might need to code the lower level phenomenons in the machines.


